"Even though we recognize, we may behold the glimpse of the nature of the Dharmakaya of our own
mind, our own nature. That is not enough. Now, what is it? That is called we have to meditate.
Meditation is one of practice. Practicing in that way is "Gom". "Gom" means, in the teaching, "Gom
ba mai Gom ba hai" means meditation is nothing but making more familiarness. More familiarness.
That is what it is. Meditation is more familiar with the nature of my own nature.
Now, we glimpse our understanding through the kindness, teaching, the techniques, the skillful
means of the techniques of Dzogchen teaching. We kind of glimpse that. But our realization is not
stable.
Because duality is massive. Grasping is strong. And the ignorance of the grasping is thick and
heavy. Through the power of teaching of the Dzogchen, we glimpse and experience it.
But it soon can be blurred by, again, all those reasons or conditions. Therefore, we have to be
continually carrying all these and meditate at practices, practices, practices.
And that is again, here again, teaching says clearly, all that is pleasant. This is not going away
immediately. These dualities.
And when we develop these dualities, according to the teaching, from the beginning less times, from
the beginning less times, we develop that.
We mishandle it. We mishandle it. So therefore, we have to do continually with practices. We have
to do continually with practices.
How we practice this? Really, exactly, I put the frame of the day by again, at the light of the
great Massa Japukumra. Those eight different frames, we should practice this.
Practice with the basic foundation practices of the Buddha teaching, those Mundra practices. This
is the important essence embodiment of the entire Buddha teaching.
Day one is teaching, and tell the very other teaching all for that. In other words, the entirely
condensed teaching of the Nain Jana teaching, known as the Mundra practices, foundation practices.
Steady feeling on that, we like to really explore our triggers. Have to be more practical, more
simple, and more down to the ground.
Not looking always at emergency exits. Or not looking always like parachutes somewhere. That's not
the way. There is no way that we can do.
It's just tricking our own self. We trick our self from the biggest times, thinking we are doing
something best.
According to the Buddha teaching, we trick our own self. We really bounce our head again and again,
all the time.
Again, when we come to the spiritual light together, the solution of something, like to change our
direction, and the life starts.
Again, bring the same old habit, like to feel the easy ways. Easy way, communist way, emergency, or
shortcut, or whatever we use next.
There is no way. This is what the Dzogchen teaching is shortcut. There is nothing higher, better,
safer, more simple, more rarely shortcut than the Dzogchen teaching.
That was renowned by all the practitioners from the time of the Buddha taught this teaching until
now.
Now. So therefore, feel the great joy in the application of strong reward and prayer, and really
this, they absorb this teaching to the heart.
Heart and practice follow the footsteps of all these ancient great practitioners, great masters,
what we call, but they are great practitioners.
They are great, beautiful, humble, simple, very human, and very, very humility. Really, they are.
When you look down or read the books of their life stories, how they are full of love, full of
compassion, full of kindness, full of gentle, peaceful, humble, respectful, appreciative.
All that good things, what we name in the book, everything they encourage, encourage, commitment,
digital emergence, and simple, and always very content.
Really, they are so beautiful. When you think these, these, these, they are just marvelous,
beautiful, more than beautiful.
That's how in this great follow that footstep.
And we like to discover exactly what the great master, whom he discovered, or the human, who
discovered, or the part of whom discovered, or his or her, who discovered, covered, or the Buddha
Shakyamna, who discovered.
And we like to do. Do. That's this the way. Practice those. Those.